== LTE Measurements at the University of Colorado, Boulder =

Authors: Caleb Phillips* (caleb.phillips@colorado.edu), Erik Bergal* (Erik.Bergal@Colorado.EDU), and Chingpu Wu+ (jinwer@gmail.com)
         *Computer Science Department and +Interdisciplinary Telecommunications Program
         University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA

Version: 2012-03-31

Summary: This data was collected at the University of Colorado Boulder. It contains 
careful point measurements, taken on a 100m equalateral triangular lattice, of the the 
Verizon LTE network. Contained inside is a set of CSV files (one per measurement), 
locations of the measurements (locations.csv), and locations and information about
the basestations (verizon.csv). 

License: This data is available under an academic "as-is" license. If you use this data, 
please cite it using the appropriate CRAWDAD link. And, if you have cool results, or a 
technical question, feel free to contact us and let us know. We are not in any way affiliated
with Verizon and make no claim that this data is at all representative of their network
performance. This data is intended for academic research purposes only.

Environment: The University of Colorado Campus, Boulder, Colorado, USA.

Network: All measurements were done ``passively'', without any greater access to the LTE
network than a typical client device would have.

Collection:  Data collection was performed using a netbook computer running MS Windows, JDSU (formerly Agilent) E6474A software,
and an LG VL600 LTE USB dongle. At each point, a number of simultaneous channel performance
metrics were collected, and a 60 second bidirectional throughput test was performed to an Internet host using iperf.
The measurement devices were attached to a Croozer-brand bicycle/hand cart. At each point a GPS reading
was taken from a hand-held Garmin GPS60. The data collection procedure is as follows:

 1. Locate a point to measure using the map. Try to get as close to the actual point as possible. If it is 
    on/in a building or other obstacle, go to the nearest accessible outdoor location and do the measurement 
    there instead. If the point is totally unreachable (i.e. closest point is 100m+ away), then circle 
    the point and move on.
 2. Write down the ID of the point being measured (i.e., 12 4 0) for the 0th measurement at point 12 4
 3. Using the hand held GPS device, write down the current location and accuracy of the GPS position
 4. Using the computer’s clock (or a synchronized watch), write down the current time
 5. Click the green circle in the JDSU software to start a test
 6. After 5 seconds, a command window will open behind the main window and will run a throughput test. 
    After 60 more seconds, this window will close.
 7. Click the Stop button (or press Shift + F9) to stop the test
 8. Mark off the location just measured on the map with an X.
 9. Every third point, perform 2 additional ``cluster measurements'' where you select a nearby 
    point within an 8 meter radius of the original point (20 wavelengths at 700 MHz). These points  
    should be more or less selected at random.

At each point, the JDSU software collects a continuous stream of measurements using a large number of metrics. This data 
is stored in a proprietary file format that can be exported to a parseable ASCII CSV file after measurement is completed. 
The CSVs contain a number of metrics and a variable number of measurements per metric. These are documented to some
extent in JDSU whitepapers, but some are not documented. The header field should be sufficiently descriptive in most cases,
however because the JDSU software and LG hardware are closed-source, it is not feasible to say how particular metrics
are calculated.

Sanitization: The data has not been sanitized or censored in any way.

Limitation: The measurement device is a functional LTE radio and as such will connect to the best network available (ranking by RSRP) 
in order to pass traffic. A given measurement point may be served exclusively by a single cell, or by a combination of cells. 
Hence some number of measurements are available for most cells that serve the CU campus, but as a result of this behavior, 
the strongest cells receive the most measurements. And, the resulting measurement set is more descriptive
of the combined coverage of the cells, rather than a complete model of any particular BS. 
